---
isChild: true
anchor:  docker
---

## Docker 简介 {#docker_title}

[Docker] - a lightweight alternative to a full virtual machine - is so called because it's all about "containers".  A container is a building block which, in the simplest case, does one specific job, e.g. running a web server.  An "image" is the package you use to build the container - Docker has a repository full of them.

A typical LAMP application might have three containers: a web server, a PHP-FPM process and MySQL. As with shared folders in Vagrant, you can leave your application files where they are and tell Docker where to find them.

You can generate containers from the command line (see example below) or, for ease of maintenance, build a `docker-compose.yml` file for your project specifying which to create and how they communicate with one another.

Docker may help if you're developing multiple websites and want the separation that comes from installing each on it's own virtual machine, but don't have the necessary disk space or the time to keep everything up to date.  It's efficient: the installation and downloads are quicker, you only need to store one copy of each image however often it's used, containers need less RAM and share the same OS kernel, so you can have more servers running simultaneously, and it takes a matter of seconds to stop and start them, no need to wait for a full server boot.

### 例子: 在 Docker 里面运行 PHP 应用

在你成功 [安装 Docker][docker-install] 后, 你只需要一步就可以安装 Apache + PHP.

下面的命令, 会下载一个功能齐全的 Apache 和 最新版本的 PHP, 并会设置 WEB 目录 `/path/to/your/php/files` 运行在 `http://localhost:8080`:

{% highlight console %}
docker run -d --name my-php-webserver -p 8080:80 -v /path/to/your/php/files:/var/www/html/ php:apache
{% endhighlight %}

This will initialize and launch your container. `-d` makes it runs in the background. To stop and start it, simply run `docker stop my-php-webserver` and `docker start my-php-webserver` (the other parameters are not needed again).

### 了解更多关于 Docker 的信息

The command above shows a quick way to run a basic server.  There's much more you can do (and thousands of pre-built images in the [Docker Hub][docker-hub]). Take time to learn the terminology and read the [Docker User Guide][docker-doc] to get the most from it, and don't run random code you've downloaded without checking it's safe – unofficial images may not have the latest security patches. If in doubt, stick to the [official repositiories][docker-hub-official].

The [PHPDocker.io] site will auto-generate all the files you need for a fully-featured LAMP/LEMP stack, including your choice of PHP version and extensions.

* [Docker Website][Docker]
* [Docker Installation][docker-install]
* [Docker User Guide][docker-doc]
* [Docker Hub][docker-hub]
* [Docker Hub - official images][docker-hub-official]

[Docker]: http://docker.com/
[docker-hub]: https://hub.docker.com/
[docker-hub-official]: https://hub.docker.com/explore/
[docker-install]: https://docs.docker.com/installation/
[docker-doc]: https://docs.docker.com/userguide/
[PHPDocker.io]: https://phpdocker.io/generator
